Under federal law in the United States, the use and possession of cannabis is illegal for any purpose. This dates to the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, which regulated the manufacture, importation, possession, use , and distribution of certain drugs. The Controlled Substances Act classified  drugs into categories based on their potential for medical use and abuse. Cannabis was classified as a Schedule 1 drug, which means that in the eyes of the government, there are no valid medical uses, and the drug has a high potential for abuse [1].

Over the next two decades, public opinion towards cannabis was largely negative, impacted by the federal government’s “War on Drugs.” It was not until 1996 that the tide began to change when California passed Proposition 215. Proposition 215 allowed for the “sale and medical use of marijuana for patients with AIDS, cancer, and other serious painful diseases [2]. As of today, thirty-six states have legalized the use of cannabis for medical purposes, thirteen have decriminalized its use, and seventeen have fully legalized it for recreational purposes. Five of the seventeen states (Arizona, Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, and Virginia) have legalized usage within the last year. 

In a Gallup poll conducted in November of 2020, 68% of Americans support the legalization of cannabis [3]. This strong support has led many states to consider whether they should legalize recreational cannabis. Some opponents of legalization argue that it will increase the amount of crime [5]. Since cannabis has already been legalized in some states, we can analyze the real-world effects that legalization has had to make a recommendation to state governments considering legalization. This application seeks to do just so, exploring the effects of recreational cannabis legalization on crime rates throughout the United States in the years 2010 to 2019.