Two types of statistical testing were applied to the data. They can be viewed to the right.

Before performing testing, the data was broken down into two sets. The first set consists of all the data points where recreational cannabis was not legalized. This includes data from states where recreational cannabis is now legal before legislation went into effect and all data from states where recreational cannabis has never been legal. The second set consists of all data from states after legalization went into effect. 

The first test performed to the right is a two-tailed two-sample t-test to check for equal means. The purpose of this test is to determine if there is a difference in the mean of the crime rates in states where recreational cannabis is legal, versus where it is illegal. The null hypothesis in this test is that the means are equal, while the alternative hypothesis is that they are not equal. A statistically significant result of this test would imply that there is a difference in the crime rates between the two groups. 

In two breakdowns of the data set involving property crime (`State`/`Property`, `Metro`/`Property`), the p-values obtained are greater than 0.05. This means that we do not have enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis for these cases. In the two other cases (`State`/`Violent`, `Metro`/`Violent`), there are statistically significant results. The p-value for `Metro`/`Violent` is `0.04137` and the p-value for `Metro`/`State` is `0.04083`. This means that in both the states as a whole and in metropolitan areas there is a statistically significant difference in the amount of violent crime committed in areas where recreational cannabis has been legalized versus where it has not.

The second test performed is a linear regression analysis. The goal of regression is to analyze the relationship between two variables. In this case, the variables being analyzed are the legalization status (independent variable) and the crime rate (dependent variable). Legalization status is a categorical value with two levels - either `TRUE` (recreational cannabis is legal) or `FALSE` (recreational cannabis is illegal). Since linear regression requires the use of numerical values, the legalization status must be transformed using dummy coding. Dummy coding is a technique in which a categorical value is transformed into a numerical value. In this case, `0` is used to indicate a legalization status of `FALSE` and `1` is used to indicate a legalization status of `TRUE`. 

The null hypothesis when performing a regression analysis is that the coefficient on the dependent variable is zero. If the null hypothesis were true, it would essentially mean that the independent variable had no effect on the dependent variable. The alternative hypothesis is that coefficient is not zero, and the independent variable has some kind of effect on the dependent variable. 

To the right, you can see a summary of the linear regression model that was generated. We can see that once again, for both combinations of property crime (`State`/`Property` and `Metro`/`Property`), there is no statistically significant result. Both p-values are greater than 0.05 and thus we cannot reject the null hypothesis. For violent crime, however, there is a statistically significant result. The p-value for `State`/`Violent` is `9.184253e-04` and the p-value for `Metro`/`Violent` is `4.348973e-04`. In both cases, the estimated coefficient value is positive, which implies that the amount of violent crime increases with recreational cannabis legalization.